All right.
June 26th.
I saw you at the 88 in Washington.
And it was nice.
I enjoyed it.
You were the best friend?
Yes.
You followed the Helga fellow.
Oh, really?
I didn't know.
I didn't know that.
Anyway, where do we start?
I enjoyed the book.
I read it, believe it or not, in one sitting last night.
It finished 2 a.m.
So many of the things you've answered in the book, so I'll try to get some perceptions if that's OK.
Do you have a sense of a place in history?
And towards the end, you mentioned your son having read
about you writing a street book?
Yeah, probably, unless something happens to you, sir, it's drawn with image, it's drawn with image of me, it will be left, it will be to do with this terminal system.
But any specifically reference?
I think that my place was, I will be known as,
of a compassionate agitator.
They'll get tighter to me after I drop dead a little bit.
But I think for people who don't like what I stood for and did, I will have been a kind of high American agitator.
But I think that's much diminished now, that time of year, partly because it could have been proven over the years of proving that Vietnam is what it was.
Do you suspect that you would be identified primarily with the Vietnam thing?
I don't know.
Passacists both singers of the 60s.
You say that as kind of as I would expect that there would be more of what is the word you use?
Kind of, I think.
I think your position of non-violence goes for us.
Elevated you, separated you from others.
No, I mean, it makes it – it differentiates my politics to say politics of people who are pro-arm struggle.
But those are lines that many – I would say the masses of American public never – did not make that differentiation.
You say that you expect that maybe the perception of you may become kinder.
Do you think that it already is?
Yes, it is already.
It is, and part of that really has to do with the, I mean, for two minutes, it took 20 years to be able to make the movie pretend and have people be able to go and see it.
Do you feel that you've mellowed personally?
I think we all mellow, and I think to pretend that we don't is really false, and we're all not going to change.
You feel a pressure to, quote, not change, which is really childish, because the word mellow is alarming, because I come from California.
You get laid back, and you don't go anywhere, you jam, and you don't relax and take tea.
You kick back, and everybody gets mellow.
But unfortunately, that means that I think maybe in the yuppie context... Well, that's a different thing.
Less strength.
Less angry, less dreading.
Sure.
Is that a product of the time, or a product of being 45?
I think it's both.
I mean, there are very few people.
I mean, take a radical person who still really, according to the video I saw there, they like to be, in some ways, very young at heart and very, well, young in spirit, but still there's a mellowing process, and that became easy.
I mean, I don't even know Ken, but just from watching that, really, I really love the spirit.
Yeah.
He looks like a middle-aged businessman.
I know.
The Andy Carter trial, it was so funny.
I mean, he looks like he could have been a defense attorney.
He's from Worcester, by the way.
Oh, really?
And Ginny Griffith, you know, Ginny Griffith.
Ginny Griffith, you know.
He's the one who's been here last year, and he's been here.
And that's unfortunate.
He really is, because it's the only time I ever met him.
Again, you know, the British dress and everything.
Well, he was doing a signing change that he could take.
And the guy was in the 60s.
You keep referring to the list of 60s.
No, I don't list the 60s.
There does seem to be a sense in here.
You know what I suspect is my thing.
I suspect that it may be a bit like mine not recognizing King's death until eight years later and then nine years after that.
that I don't want to linger there.
I really don't like 60s parties, the smell of peculia and you wear a headband and you go back to those days.
I just thought I'm not interested.
Now maybe, maybe I overreact to that.
I mean, I don't listen to 60s music.
I do one night a week.
I'm very nice at home.
Unfortunately, between 12 and 4 in the morning, the wonderful NPR show makes me crazy because I fall asleep in the middle of it.
But he picked, in my opinion, the best of the music of the 60s.
You know, a really good Joe Cocker.
He wrote something about it.
And I love that.
I appreciate it.
And I find I'll wake up smiling.
You know, because it's just a good show with good music.
But I don't have consciously, at any rate, a great nostalgia to be living in the 60s.
Do you find yourself there's a line there when you were at the live age, and this stuff belongs to the 60s?
And that can never be repeated.
It can't.
However, by the same token, do you feel alienated in any way by the youth?
Absolutely.
And I'm perfectly open about that.
It doesn't mean I want back.
I mean, I think partly because the 60s for me weren't a big party.
And I didn't do drugs and hang out and, you know, drugs and sex and rock and roll.
That's an important, another important aspect, I think.
Yeah.
It is, in that I was... In addition to the nonviolence, also the fact that you were in part of these drugs.
I wasn't part of, no, watching the whole Ken Teese documentary,
an hour and then another half hour on those days.
I wasn't in any of those 16s.
I didn't party.
I didn't do drugs.
I was in the South and in the Black Sea.
Well, it's where?
Well, drug-wise, I was absolutely there.
You know, I mean, Allen Ginsberg, you know, so I was the hopeless for us to do it.
Yeah, the alienation because even though I began as counterculture, counterculture became mainstream.
And it was both persons as counterculture and both persons for civil rights and then against the one Vietnam.
I feel as though I knew exactly what I was doing and I was right on track and eventually
was really, people said, oh, yeah, well, I guess she was right.
And also there was support during those times of just simply knowing, I mean, feeling it with such clarity that what I was doing was actually correct, and it was there to do.
And you had supporters around you, and then you had a movement grow, two of them, the civil rights movement and then the anti-war movement.
So in the 80s, the context is so amorphous.
I mean, you can think what you want and do what you want, but in a context like the one we have now, which is whatever new faith you're given me, and nobody's ever really defined it to me, but it's unsubstantial.
These times are unsubstantial, and if I have what I think is a very substantial point of view, the entire magazine three weeks ago sort of was saying, where are our ethics?
Do we have any?
So when you try to be an ethical and moral person with a viewpoint in the 80s,
It doesn't really matter.
There's quoting Time.
That's kind of amusing that you would quote.
Well, I do.
But does that question bother you?
Where are our ethics?
Of course it does.
And I quote Time because I'm sort of considered an old mag for saying things like, where are our ethical standards and where are our mags?
But if it's on the cover of Time magazine, it's looked at in a different way.
And it is a serious question.
It was dealt with at length in time.
You know, in naming the hundreds of people under indictment, I really think it was interesting.
And I sort of went, whew.
Even the traders, the so-called traders, the alleged traders, you know, Walker and the others, strictly greed.
It's not even ideology anymore.
At least some of the others, they had an ideological
You know, the Rosenbergs people, you have to admire their commitments.
This guy was strictly in a federal party.
And that's contemptible, isn't it?
Well, and I think the Iran gate hearings are like some bizarre kind of deadlines.
They're a big so long.
I mean, because, and it's not really the judgment of what they all have gone wrong.
It's our reaction to what they did.
In the book, again, I'm a book critic, so obviously I'm reading the style and the subtlety.
You speak directly, by my count, to at least five people, to that point.
Tell me about that.
And there is bitterness in the going.
There's no question about that.
So it's not going to have to admit.
I mean, especially there is.
Yeah.
Talk to you about bitterness.
I think finding how you write about something like that, which is an enormously important part of my life, without being either sassy or sort of goody-key shoes or venting bitterness.
I really try very hard to find in between and make it accurate.
a combination of my idolatry and awe and appreciation for Dylan, and then the hurt.
Have you ever been able to resolve, explain satisfactorily to yourself what happened in your... what happened?
I can only explain to somebody what happened to me.
I have no idea... Objectively, we can see what happened.
There was a shaggy.
But you see, one thing I...
One thing I hope that I didn't try to do in the book anymore was try to leave anybody to believe that I had no understood Bob at all.
And it's about sentimental, I think.
It would have been very easy, I think.
Yeah.
And I thought you handled that very nicely.
But you must have had some idea of his personality.
What is it?
He doesn't like to share greatness.
Honestly, I honestly don't know.
I mean, that I'd say about myself, you know, that my own struggle, and when the hippie comes over to sit with us, I hated her because I wasn't used to anybody getting paid as much attention as myself.
You even mentioned grabbing for the microphone in the live.
So these are the instincts, I guess, that they're on the plane.
Right.
It takes a certain personality and walk out in those lights in the face of it.
So basically you're telling me you don't understand.
No, I don't.
I mean, I really understand almost from my side.
And only that, partly.
And I guess it's part of his nature to offer any explanation.
Well, all I can say is no explanation is ever forthcoming, and I never expect it.
the final meeting in the hotel room, why react to that thing?
No idea.
Again, it's trying to understand.
It's trying to understand it.
It's trying to totally not understand it.
All I can do is control my actions to get out.
That's the only time I come to my friends is if it isn't working well.
What year was that chore, by the way?
Right, yeah.
That last scene was 85.
So that's only two years ago.
But you think that this is it?
I think so.
I mean, certainly what I wrote, you know, and folded it up and sent away, I was happy with.
Do you hope that he will expect that he will read this?
No.
I jumped ahead of myself.
Again, you said you recognized the first time that you saw him.
You mentioned the first time you saw Dylan was the same thing.
Is this the whole thing going to be on Dylan, or are you going to move on to something else?
I'm going to move on to something else.
So the first time I saw him?
I'm just curious about recognizing what you saw.
Genius?
Yeah.
I'm talking about equality.
No more going questions.
Oh, I had one other one, but can I ask that?
Did it bother you that he was not a social activist?
I think so.
I mean, I think that comes out clearly.
Now, that may have been on a less conscious level part of fascination.
I don't know.
But I certainly, on a conscious level, was disappointed.
And I had no right to be.
He had never done anything that could give me any illusions about him in his day's life.
OK.
And the reason I ask is because it now leads us away from John.
And maybe if you could just explain for me how or why it is rational for a celebrity using a performer and I, using the set you get to hear.
in a proper time to enunciate, to articulate... To rationalize it?
No, to project to political views of... What do I think of that?
Or is it right or wrong?
Yeah.
Well, there's a propriety that they say.
I don't understand.
You know?
I mean, it's something I never weighed, if you should I be doing this or not.
It was something that I just granted
And I'm sure I think it's for granted because I thought that it was on the side of good.
From when I was very little in concerning myself with the ill to the world, quote unquote, in a quake or anything.
It occurred to me that doing that and doing it in a broader sense because of the talent I've been given could be a thing of a good.
What about?
Maybe Hitler thought the same thing.
It's questionable like that.
Nevertheless, you know, I mean, acquiring visibility through one medium and every year that, too.
Well, I suppose, you know, one of the things is we've lost faith in the wrong instance about doing what's right.
It may be wrong, but I think we've got to follow them.
And we're so afraid of it, you know.
I mean, on that question, like, abortion, I remember reading an article about
And what do you really think about it?
Not what does the moral majority intimidate you into thinking and saying and what does somebody else, but what do you really feel about it?
You know?
If you were blessed with this beautiful voice, what do you think you would have done?
If I were?
Yes.
Probably.
But you did not have the voice to sing with, but... Well, see, those questions were so hypothetical because it's been a part of my life for so long.
I mean, we can conjecture, or you might say, well, what if at this point I lost my voice?
I think that there are probably by now, there are lots of ways for you to just feel so much harder to use.
I just got vocalizing every day in the morning, and I just sit down on the guitar and get on with learning languages and reading and writing.
I love to know it.
No, I didn't have to do several of those stories.
And she said she stopped singing too tired when she was at the very top of her form.
She really did, actually.
At the very top of her form.
And I said, well, the time to go is when it's too soon and not too late.
And making a number of sports analogies, Ted Williams going out on a home run.
What I'm getting around to is, do you kind of feel the same way?
Would you expect it?
for the next 40 years.
No, I think I probably have 10 or 15 years.
And I think that the reason I wouldn't say 20 or 25 is that, say, for him it's never been a question of vocal quality.
It's the way he communicates and forms on the banjo, and that's what he does.
So much of what I do depends on work quality in the shape of something.
And so when that begins to deteriorate, and it did once.
And that's when I went and started doing myself.
It was deteriorating.
And it was such a blow to me because it was out of my realms of thought for anything that would ever go wrong with it.
Then I think that I might want to be getting comfortable.
Or I might be able to do exactly what I want to do.
One of the things I enjoy doing in a situation like Argentina or Poland, going to a place that really interests me.
I'm learning my support.
It don't have to be an F.E.E.C.
or a local forum.
It's a combination of speaking with people and marketing with people and coming in a couple of weeks.
It's not the formal business of presenting the company.
On the way in today, I've got an advanced studio recording, which I enjoyed by the way.
I kind of stuck the ambience for the interviews in order to listen to it.
But that is the first studio recording in eight years.
Is that right?
Why is that?
Why the eight years?
Because for eight years, either they weren't interested in me, or I couldn't do it anymore.
Because then, meaning they mainly... Do you mean the industry?
Yes, the industry.
I had to forge whatever my position was now in the industry.
And that was just, you know, it shocked me, because in the beginning, I didn't.
The music has come about a hundred years ago, from small to beautiful.
introspection, melody, words, social commentary.
Totally the opposite.
Rhythm.
If there are good words, you can't hear them.
Except Brothers in Arms.
It was written by probably one of the two or three top rock groups in the world right now.
Nobody's ever heard those words.
There's just one book.
And it's a beautiful song.
You can break around and find them, but the people are not interested in projecting words.
So,
And I couldn't... Is it also that audiences are interested in hearing them, too?
Well, miraculously for me, I go on having audiences.
I don't have five audiences.
I did for 10 or 15 years.
But it is sort of astounding that I go on concert tours and people show up on a large scale, much larger in Europe.
Everywhere but here, larger.
You know, trying to have that to fall back on, but I really want to see what... Everywhere but here, meaning...
Why is that?
You know, I'm not really sure.
I tried to deal with it, you know, try to sort of guess at it a little bit in the book, but I'm not really sure.
I think that somewhere like Germany, for instance, only three or four thousand people will show up.
No record, no video, no MTV, no current stuff.
So, timelessness in Europe will take you thought of it.
Here it has to be timely, too, and two months later it's going to be another group and another group.
I have a timelessness with certain people who will show up there.
And the last couple of years, you know, I've spread out to younger people somewhere.
But I think that has to be with political atmosphere as well.
Hmm.
Again, you're a young woman.
Do you feel nevertheless that?
I don't know.
I really would be sad to look at it as though if I ended up living day to day and keeping aware of what was going on around me.
And so that was when I had to find that.
I mean, I think my Quakerism comes in very handy.
you go on listening to the still small voice you're in and it still tells you something and gives you guidance.
I think I have to have a completely open view that if in ten years that whatever happens cyclically, that it's time for an international non-violent crusade, I want to be there.
If that never happens, I want to be a good road crewman.
Except, however, when they're speaking directly to Dr. King.
You say, I want to regain the sureness of commitment.
I do.
And directness to go back out.
And that's exactly what I'm saying.
If that time comes around, I'll be there.
But I want to have the sense to know if it doesn't.
In 1964, there was bus integration in Mississippi and Alabama.
And people got beat up by the accident, and then he's thrown off the bus because nobody ever heard about it.
And I like to think that a little bit of political savvy after 30 years will serve me.
I don't want to do those things until they really make sense.
Absolute sense to me, and a public sense.
Gandhi was a student for that.
And Gandhi had that overall sense, spiritually, personally, tomorrow we're going to break the British salt tax, and we're going to have two million people with that.
I think a little bit at 45, I really don't want to waste energy.
It doesn't mean...
I think that I have to be very, very open to when those things will be right and be willing to do them.
But we shouldn't read into this that you are a social activist in search of a cause.
That's exactly what I'm saying.
I'm not.
That if I were, I could be arrested any time of day, anywhere, for a variety of things.
I really am not interested in, number one, doing that to prove that I'm still a social activist.
Or two, it's simply pleasing other people's ideas of what they think they should be doing.
And people will plead and say, oh, why aren't you here?
Why aren't you doing that?
And all I can say is that I have to wait to be properly dictated to do it.
One incident you discussed in the book, and I should have remembered this, but to verify that when the vote-keeping were open, you pointed the finger at the Vietnamese government.
funny, kind of ironic way, in a very brief period, it became almost the dialing of the opposite of the right wing.
Not of the right wing, but of those elements.
Well, it's the right wing.
I mean, some, two of my boat, the two original boat people who came to my living room came to the first book signing I had, and I was in Alexandria.
It was very moving.
I feel very, very close to them.
What people didn't understand was that
I was never a promoter of the Illinois government, and I've never been a promoter of arms struggle.
But as I was saying earlier, that line between myself and, say, somebody like Jane Fonda, who has supported arms struggle and supported the Illinois regime, and when POW came out on the wires in just something like 1978, something like that, was saying,
We talked about being tortured, the claims we had been tortured, and the message from Jane or from her people was, couldn't be.
So things are happening.
So I sent mine in mighty quick.
But you see, I don't have, I mean, I understand why people assumed I was a leftist.
I was working with leftists from early 60s until the mid-70s.
Because that's who you work with.
When I work to get somebody out of a Siberian gulag, then I'm working with right-wing people who are having the ideas and the inertia.
And they're to the right of Jean Kirkpatrick and Gendrit Kahn.
And I love them anyway, and I'll slice them to the end on their miserable one-sided opinions about who's all right and about the evil empire.
I mean, I really do know people from the far parts of both of those camps.
Would you say you're non-political in this space?
I think if you say, I think you're the best thing to say with John Deere.
I think when people ask to say, what, if you say non-political, it's just one of those sort of non-words.
I'm non-partisan.
And really, in my gut, I'm non-partisan.
I don't have a favorite.
I loathe the violence of both camps utterly and completely and easily.
Were you disappointed that Pondra didn't... I remember I was at the time because I was so wrapped up in what we were doing and the evidence was so clear that I was a little surprised at some people and not a surprise for others.
You know, I appreciated my thoughts on the book.
It comes to a blunt sort of... I'm not very intelligent.
It's got to be made to criticize the socialists, doesn't it?
About the choice he's made, so, okay.
I understand that.
I've never heard that place before, but I don't have a watch.
I just left mine off at a tree.
Okay.
I mean, how much?
You okay?
20 minutes?
I'm doing fine.
I'm going to check on the machine here.
I thought it was on about a little before 20 hours.
Okay, well, why don't we just hear it for you a minute?
Can I, is it possible to get a color photo of you, by the way?
From somebody, you mean?
From one of your publicity people.
Oh, I see.
Let me see what we have.
I'll ask Nancy.
Ask Nancy.
If I get a color photo, we can do a cover.
We can do a magazine.
Okay, let me always apply to something in the office.
That would be good.
Again, the book speaks for itself, so I hate to ask questions when she's not answered.
rather eloquently in the work.
Again, talking directly to individuals.
Was this something that just developed in the writing of the book?
Yeah, because when you say there are X numbers, X many people, I didn't know that.
That was used to you?
Yeah.
I guess when it starts to sort of
Maybe it's a way of putting a lid on gushing.
If I can tell it directly to somebody, I feel a little less sloppy.
Because I'm trying to say something a little more emotional.
It does jump right out when it's done.
And I think the most eloquent one, of course, is the Martin Luther King.
That would be a good one.
I haven't asked you about the Al Tapp thing.
You can laugh about it now.
I couldn't stand at all.
Really.
You couldn't sue him.
Why not?
Well, first of all, I'm not up high.
I'm not up high.
But, I mean, I knew it wasn't that.
You're not a litigator, should we say.
It would have been embarrassing to see that.
He was probably asking.
He probably would love to have had it.
Well, sure.
I used to meeting my manager and saying, why did she stop?
And she did.
It's the best of Rupert he'd had in years.
Another thing I didn't realize is that, again, going back to the 60s, one would just assume that you and Farmer and some of the other more visible anti-war activists were friendly.
And you said you probably met her once or twice.
Yeah.
And you see, a lot of times, the things that I was involved in, the marches and what have you, were run directly under like a nonviolent wing.
You know, like when we were arrested for ADN and the activists, we were arrested in the induction center.
Half of this would move with everybody, and eventually we would just have to take half of the stage.
People would be saying, we're going down there, we're going this, we're going that.
However we want to behave is up to us.
And the pastors would eventually pull away.
But I really didn't want to be involved with a bunch of people.
I mean, it's interesting.
You see it in Seoul.
The paper, if you read carefully, is student leaders took the police back to faith.
So you know the leadership has a discipline, and they probably
would like to out-vote selling fire, kerosene bombs were heavy, but they can't control it.
So we were wanting to control.
This is our state, and we were called the leaders and what have you.
But I would rather sing to the police, you know, than call them pigs.
It doesn't make any sense to me.
I think the way you make human change is by seriously attempting to change people.
What about that Angela Davis episode?
Oh, yeah, it's so awful.
Wasn't the frightening part that was so awful, it was the demoralizing part.
Well, was it veiled threat, was it?
Yeah, I guess so.
Well, you know, this guy who stayed over and he said, don't worry, I know niggas going to be throwing bricks at 9 o'clock in the morning on Tuesday.
That probably spared us from more worry than we would have had.
You know, we would have had more.
He's sort of saying, you know, there.
Hello?
Yes?
Yes, ma'am.
Sure.
I think it was one seven up taking it.
I think I would play this stuff.
On the Rolling Thunder, that came through Worcester.
I don't know if you were in that one.
Well, I was in all of the Rolling Thunder shows.
I mean, the two tours that went out.
It was a great show.
Okay, could you, would you describe this to my two?
I didn't realize that you started it.
I was writing the book in, this was in 1974, just before the period, you know, and we were at the time of, about the three of some of you who were in the book, Hanoi, and Kim, and Marlon Brando, and Japan.
Mm-hmm.
And then I got some sort of bizarre block and I didn't write.
And then I finally put it all away after two months and didn't go back to the food.
Was it a, what's the verb?
Did you feel that you wanted to tell your story or you wanted to write?
I mean, was it a... Well, I love to write, but I think I wanted to... Putting a life on the record, so to speak?
I think so, for myself and for whoever I was interested in.
Updating things like that kind of...
Okay.
Thank you.
I just reread it this summer.
And there is so much in that novel that it almost looks as though I stole a lot of stuff in it.
It really, I mean, I could almost be accused of pleasure when they said that I hadn't read it for 20 years.
I think I read it for 25 years, but I'm amazing.
Well, it's amazing.
It is exactly the same.
Washington has not changed.
In a hundred and some years.
I was very pleased to see that Marty Nolan at the Washington Globe when he wrote a piece about my book, did compare it to democracy.
But I don't think anybody has written a comedy of manners about Washington like that.
That is how you would classify it as a comedy of manners, satire.
on, you know, well, it had two layers.
I mean, there's that layer, and then there's the layer of that relationship with the grill.
Was it fun that you were in our work now?
Oh, I love it.
I know that it is fun.
I saw you as an EDA in New Orleans, and I remember you were saying, you know, you had this baby, and it was like a fire horse here, and so, and you were desperate to get out there.
Tell me stories.
You must miss the deadline.
I don't.
If I did, I'd do it.
I mean, people are saying, honestly, don't you really miss it?
Well, if I did, I'd do it.
There's nothing stopping me.
I can go back and write to the post any time I want to.
I mean, one of the reasons I left is because it didn't turn me on anymore.
Really?
Yeah.
I mean, I just kind of got tired of it.
You don't miss that.
The stories are so great.
We have the postions.
You know, you go through different things.
I mean, when I was young, I liked to date a lot.
You know, I liked to go up with lots of different guys and go to parties every night, and I don't like to do that.
I go out and I used to go to this boat, this boat until two, three in the morning.
Okay, I don't like that anymore.
I like to, I love being married.
I love my baby.
I like to stay home at night with my husband or go to, you know, dinners and be home by 11 o'clock at night.
You change when the things depend on you.
Can we use it, please?
I will.
You need a pen?
Can I tell?